# Synesthetic

## Abstract

The aim of the project is to render a visual representation of a musical piece via music information retrieval algorithms. The user is required to upload three audio tracks:   
1. A one-channel track containing the most rhythmic relevant sounds of the musical piece (e.g. drums)
2. A one-channel track containing the most harmonic content of the musical piece (e.g. chords)
3. A two-channel mixdown of the first two audio tracks.
Based on the rhythmic and harmonic track, a dynamic visual representation is generated. The third track is played back during the visualization.

## Detailed project description

The project is divided into two main parts:
1. Backend (implemented in Python): takes a musical piece and performs its analysis and information retrieval
2. Frontend (implemented in JavaScript): takes the data generated by the backend, generates visual elements and shows them dynamically together with the musical piece

Python and Javascript are integrated using Flask (see https://flask.palletsprojects.com/en/1.1.x/installation/ and https://palletsprojects.com/p/flask/)


### Backend (Python)
Pre-analysis/extration of information from the audio track:
* Tempo (tempogram)
* Rhythm (polyrhythmic matrix)
* Harmony
* Frequencies (spectrogram and cromagram)

All information is extracted in the backend in order to optimize the realtime aspect of the visualization in javascript.
We give to the javascript frontend all the extracted information in a series of arrays/matrices (Json format) that are interpreted simultaneously with the playback of the musical piece. We have to sync the arrays with the audio playback.

### Frontend (Javascript)
Visualize in a different way:
* Tempo: Associated to pulsations of the background
* Rhythm: There can be more than one rhythm. Each rhythm can be associated to a different geometric figure. They appear and pulsate following their relative rhythm
* Harmonic Analysis: color of the background and of other elements. Possible geometric interpretation of the modes (minor/major/etc.)
* Frequencies/Spectrum: the frequency spectrum influences other generic graphical elements (e.g. saturation of a part of a video)

Background texture to be selected based on the musical piece.




